The following are items I still hope to complete myself over the comming weeks before the DFRWS-EU 2017:
1)  RJM : Build MattockFS deb package for Ubuntu LTS 16.4. (5 SP)
    Currently the installation of MattockFS uses a combination of a python setup script and a bash script
    that is meant to run on Ubuntu and install dependencies. Turning this setup into a regular deb file
    should make installation more standard.
2)  RJM : Complete my material for DFRWS-EU 2017 workshop on MattockFS.
3)  RJM : Update website. Website was made largely pre-implemetation and needs some major updates.

After the DFRWS-EU, I'll focus my efforts on these esential features. Extra hands are
very much welcome. 

    IF YOU WISH TO CONTRIBUTE BY PICKING UP ANY OF THE ITEMS BELOW,
    PLEASE ADD YOUR INITIALS TO THE ITEM AND SEND ME A PULL REQUEST.

4)  Testing (+ debugging) restore state from journal. This bastard has been with
    me for a few months now and "I REALLY COULD USE A SECOND PAIR OF EYES ON THIS ONE".
    After a restart, the anycast state should get restored from the journal. Currently
    he restored state is somehow messed up, so I've disabled this crucial feature for
    now. I was really hoping to fix this one before the DFRWS.
5)  Implement temporary-quarantine facility: In OCFA, the Anycast im-
    plemented a quarantine facility for data that would crash a module.
    This facility, that OCFA implemented in the form of the never priority
    allowed the investigation to keep running while maintenance program-
    mers would fix the module. Research is needed into the possibility of
    implementing a similar data quarantine functionality in MattockFS.
    It is a remore posibility that this feature might be a prerequitite to
    truly fixing the issues with #4.
6)  Implement and evaluate secondary opportunistic hashing : Secondary
    incore based opportunistic hashing could potentially greatly improve
    the interaction between carving and opportunistic hashing.
7)  Write ports of the base API to C++ Next to Python, C++ should be
    considered an important language for writing modules in. The current
    Python wrapper API for access to the file-system based archive and
    messaging API should also be ported to C++.

After everything up to #7 is complete, chances are the Python reference implementation
will have gone as fas as we can get with Python and the next logical step would be
a port to C++, followed by a number of nfeatures best implemented after such a port:

8)   Port MattockFS to C++: While Python is a good programming lan-
     guage for prototyping, our evaluation has shown that the implementa-
     tion is relatively slow with respect to import and possibly messaging.
     This slowness could potentially partially nullify part of the performance
     benefits from the page-cache and opportunistic hashing. Rewriting it
     in C++ is likely to lead to a much faster implementation.
9)   Move to BLAKE2bp: The current implementation uses a Python module 
     without support for the parallel multi-core BLAKE2bp implemen-
     tation. With just one file-system on a node for a given archive, this
     would mean at most one core could be working on opportunistic hashing 
     for the whole node, possibly creating a hashing bottleneck for the
     system. Implementing BLAKE2bp, either by patching the BLAKE2
     python module code, or by moving to C++ and appropriate library
     could remove that potential bottleneck.
10)  Fuse read-block size: As we identified in our evaluation of file/digest
     order, reducing the read block-size for FUSE could potentially greatly
     reduce the amount of spurious reads, but at the expense of file-system
     overhead. This should be evaluated and if worth the price, implemented
     into MattockFS.

Finaly there are some architecture priviledge seperation concerns that need adressing:

11)  Redis and privilege separation: The current implementation of Mat-
     tockFS uses REDIS as in-memory distributed storage for CarvPath
     long-path entries. The use of a Redis server for distributed CarvPath
     long-path storage is currently an Achilles’ heel in the access control
     model of MattockFS. It may be necessary to rethink this part of Mat-
     tockFS to remove this potential vulnerability.
12   Mandatory access control: Without limiting access to /proc in an ef-
     fective way, the sparse capability based API might be compromised
     through capabilities that could be snooped from other processes through
     pseudo files in the /proc hierarchy that give access to process internals
     including open files. Using AppArmor or SELinux, access to these
     pseudo files could be effectively prohibited. Further, in a directed anti-
     forensic attack against MattockFS, a running module might spawn a
     child process that could register under the name of an other module.
     Again a threat that could be removed by using AppArmor or SELinux
     for Mandatory Access Controll.

The following TODO items have been completed since I've handed in my paper for grading:

* Maintain state in journal for restore of anycast state after restart.
* Framework fadvise hooks: Different file-types can have file-type specific
  processing and expected access patterns. It is likely that providing
  hooks for allowing the framework to predict such patterns could allow
  the file-system to set smarter fadvise values that might further reduce
  spurious reads and improve page-cache efficiency.
* Re-factor sorting to picking: While the picking policies are suitable for
  a proof of concept, some policies have shown to have poor scalability
  properties in their current implementation. It is likely that moving
  from a sorting type algorithm to a more picking oriented algorithm
  would lead to a more efficient picking process for some of these policies,
  especially for larger sets.
* Create a presentation video about MattockFS : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hJCqBLfEN7Y
* Make MattockFS multi-process, starting a default of four archives per node.
  This should be a first step towards allowing multi node meshups to be created with MattockFS.
* Added a simple example program, implementing an mmls wrapper without throttling support.
  I hope this can help others an easier steppingstone to figuring out how to use MattockFS.

